hi I'm Anita hice and my new book am i
black enough for you is available now
for you to either pick up or download
in 2007 I read our songs unpolished Jim
as I was chairing a panel at the barn by
writers festival titled it's an
Australian writers speak about national
identity the story of Alice's Chinese
Cambodian family in Australia dealt with
stereotypes she'd heard from kids at
school and the story included
stereotypes about good migrants and bad
migrants but it was the first line of
the book this story does not begin on a
boat and the later line there are no
Wild Swans or falling leaves that struck
me immediately I knew I had to write a
story about Aboriginal Australia that
didn't begin in the desert and didn't
have didgeridoos playing in the
background in the 1990s I also read bori
Monte prize memoir maybe tomorrow which
included a scene at a school where a
child asked when did you start being an
Aborigine and how old were you when you
started that so the idea and inspiration
for my memoir on identity has a long
history and both pan and Pryor
influenced me in style and purpose to
produce something that spoke in positive
ways about the diversity of Aboriginal
Australia today
what it means to be Aboriginal is
personal to each individual my identity
is not simply about race it's about my
family history it's about the history of
Aboriginal Australia generally it's
about the ways that I have been shaped
as a human being since birth it's not
about blood quantum or the color of my
skin or whether or not I work in an
Aboriginal organisation but I will say
that all the work I do paid and
voluntary it's for the betterment of the
Aboriginal community in some way
Aboriginality to me it means solidarity
with those in my community I mean
locally nationally and internationally
I'm proud to be where Adria I'm proud to
be Cory and I'm proud I come from the
oldest surviving culture in the world
and that I'm part of a thriving and
evolving community today it also means
that I feel the suffering of those
without the freedoms and the resources
that I enjoy in the city in the state of
New South Wales overall I think being
Aboriginal is best summed up in the
lyrics from the brand new day anthem
there's nothing I would rather be
well it wasn't a decision I took lightly
nor on my own I made my decision based
on many conversations I had with my
family with my friends and obviously
with lawyers in the end I felt that I
had no choice but to participate if I
wanted to make real change to the way
but the media portrayed and often
persecuted Aboriginal people it was a
decision I made not so much for myself
but for all those who looked to me to
stand up to the challenges presented
through journalism that questioned the
authenticity and the integrity of
Aboriginal people based on the way we
looked how educated we are where we
lived and so forth
I had countless members of the
Aboriginal community nationally urging
and supporting me to fight the good
fight especially for our young people my
humiliation and my pain through the
article in question had indeed been felt
throughout the community most
importantly I was part of the case
because I had to honor my family leaving
ended all of whom had been slighted
I had no idea about the complexity or
the trauma that would be involved with
participating in the case it wasn't
until I actually went to court that I
came to understand why people kept
saying to me I was brave and that I was
courageous for standing up to Andrew
Boldt I'm glad I was part of the case
though because my participation will
hopefully ensure that others in the
future will be safe from the unnecessary
and socially damaging persecution of
Australians based on their race it's
also important to note that much of the
support I received was also from
non-indigenous Australians expecting a
shift in the type of media reporting
that has become normal
I think that throughout history
Australia has had some very obvious
national identities that many have
accepted people have admired and often
related to the convict and settler the
Anzac digger the bronzed Ozzy and even
Crocodile Dundee the man from the borshu
heads to the Big Smoke these are all
acceptable by and large because they
were white men mostly but in recent
years with the rise of multiculturalism
in Australia and many groups forging
their own identity there's a real
struggle and I think for one single
identity that encapsulates our nation
this manifests itself around discussions
on the Australian flag being problematic
as a national symbol and January 26
being inappropriate for celebrating
Australia Day because both reflect an
identity but neither translate what it
means to be Australian today I think the
nation is therefore slightly obsessed
with that identity because we don't have
a clear-cut story that we can all
celebrate
I hope that by unraveling my own 40-plus
years of life as an Aboriginal person
living in the city that the general
Australian reading public and students
in our schools and colleges come to
appreciate without criticism or concern
the diversity and complexity of
Aboriginal identity in the 21st century
and that the power of self identity and
representation is a right as Australians
that we should all enjoy